AWS provides many storage options for backup, archiving,
and disaster recovery in the form of block,
file, and object storage.
These low-cost storage options provide
high availability and durability for different use cases.
It is important not only to understand the appropriate use cases for storage,
but also the underlying cost structure.
Storage costs will also differ depending on
AWS region and how you choose to structure and manage your storage using AWS services.
It's important to provision the required amount of block storage and scale up as needed.
As block storage must be defined in advance
as opposed to object storage and file storage,
which grows as objects and files are added.
Amazon also provides various tools for monitoring storage usage and lifecycle management.
For example, you can use the AWS billing console, bills,
and cost explorer, to gain insight into how you're
using storage resources and managing your storage budget.
When calculating storage costs,
you must also consider all aspects of
storage billing in order to get an accurate view of your storage expenses.
The storage attributes to consider
are: the storage capacity that you've provisioned and used,
data transfer costs, replication across availability zones and regions,
and storage access patterns.
Here is the list of storage options available in Amazon Web Services.
Block Storage is procured in advance and can be resized as needed.
You have the option of using magnetic drives,
which are best for throughput intensive workloads
like big data analysis and log processing,
and solid state drives,
which are best for I/O intensive applications and database services and boot volumes.
Magnetic drives also come in a cold storage option,
which is best for data that isn't accessed much during an average day.
Elastic file system, or EFS is a Cloud file system that
emulates the file shares we're used to working with
today on Windows and Unix-based systems.
EFS can be differentiated by the feature that allows it to either stand alone as
a share or be connected to multiple EC2 instances at the same time.
You do not need to provision EFS storage if scales is needed,
keeping costs to what you're using at the time.
S3 storage is object storage,
a scalable storage service in the Cloud with four pricing components: storage,
data transfer in and out,
requests, and S3 transfer acceleration in and out.
S3 provides the 11 lines of durability guarantee.
There are several S3 service options available in AWS.
S3 standard, which is the out of the box de facto standard S3
configuration option that most people think about when discussing S3 object storage.
S3 standard IA or standard infrequently accessed,
is a less costly standard storage option for
objects that you may need, but probably won't.
S3 one zone IA provides a storage option with less redundancy than S3 IA,
as the S3 objects are only replicated within one availability zone.
S3 Glacier is Amazon's archive offering for files that are accessed so infrequently.
But you agree that in exchange for a very,
very inexpensive storage, that can take a few hours to return the objects to you.
Of course, if you need archived objects in less than a few hours,
you can pay for accelerated retrieval.
An AWS Snowball is a physical device that
Amazon ships to customers to upload petabytes of object data into S3,
saving time and network bandwidth.
The device is actually shipped back to Amazon for upload into AWS S3.
Storage needs to be planned with an archiving, retention,
and deletion strategy from the start,
or storage and data transfer costs will be considerably higher than necessary.
We're going to look at how a storage strategy eliminates
the burden of infinite storage costs and data transfer costs.
Storage costs and requirements need to be well understood by the architect.
Use magnetic drives over SSD drives whenever possible.
Consider data transfer costs before adopting Glacier for archive.
Use the S3 endpoint in the VPC to
eliminate costs associated with public Internet traffic to S3.
Make use of incremental backups and establish a robust lifecycle policy.
Imagine the job of a new architect who joins
a company and has to manage terabytes of unstructured S3 data.
It would be impossible to know what's in there,
what's a key then,
what should be deleted?
Most people would just keep everything and
continue to pay for storage of objects they don't need to
keep because they didn't define a lifecycle policy or use tagging from the beginning.
Make sure you involve your organization's governance team to
establish a file retention policy for Cloud storage and follow it.
Get everyone involved.